---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Crime Scene Data Acquisition"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-07-19
published: true
labels:
  - Data Acquisition
  - 
---


Introduction 

When I am at a murder scene,  I have started making an image of a computer's drive. I had a small fire in the kitchen at the back of the house and couldn't put it out. I have only a few minutes to acquire data from a 10GB drive. And assuming that it is impossible to remove the device from the scene, I have some data acquisition tools with me and collect data later in a secure environment. There will be three recommended actions to ensure data security.  
Ideally, a drive should only take a few minutes to run. We must ensure our own security and ensure as much data integrity as possible. Of course, we're unlikely to get all the data. In this case, the data most likely to have evidence is analyzed based on the type of case at the time. For example, graphic files or communication documents such as e-mails, chat notes and notes are highly likely to be used as evidence against suspects. In general, these licensed programs have a lot of value. In addition, there may be audio/video files that may provide evidence as to who the killers are and why they murdered the victims. In the limited time, the analysis of data surveys is particularly important. Investigators must take these initial factors into account and try to obtain important data when it is not possible to obtain all data. If no investigator fails to consider these factors, it could mean their safety is at risk and critical evidence and data could be lost. 

Approach 1

In this case, using a disk imaging program such as the AccessData Forensic ToolKit could be the best option. Assuming compatibility with the targeted device, this would allow the agent to create a complete image of the disk and save nearly all of the information that could be retrieved from the target disk. This program, in particular, might be used to decode encrypted files or sections of a disk and then preserve that information. Furthermore, FTK is quick when compared to similar imaging tools, and according to the software description, it has the ability to reduce the time required to perform an investigation by 400%. However, the data must first be scanned, which takes time.  
Overall, while this approach ensures that almost all of the data on the disk is preserved (satisfying the second and third goals), the time required to create a complete image poses greater risk to the investigator because their top priority is to safely extricate themselves from the burning building with whatever data they can gather in a very short period of time. While copying a 10GB drive should not take long, every instant of delay puts the investigator's life in jeopardy. If the cables and gadgets used to duplicate the evidence data are of poor quality, the time may be longer than the agent anticipates. Furthermore, the agent should analyze the physical element of the crime scene. Because the fire is in the kitchen, there is a good chance that the fuse box is close (due to all of the appliances and outlets located in that area). What if the power goes out in the middle of the imaging process, causing the procedure to be halted? Because of these concerns, it is desirable to discover a better technique to gather information that will take less time and provide greater flexibility in the event of unanticipated occurrences. 

Approach 2

A second option is to utilize an application like WinHex, which is compatible with most Windows computers, to explicitly discover and copy files pertinent to the inquiry. If required, WinHex allows the forensic investigator to locate deleted data. Because there is an inquiry into a criminal crime, it is quite likely that deleted data should be searched for. The investigator would simply open WinHex and create a new evidence file. Then he or she will most likely try to recover files by type using the file recovery application. This is especially important if the goal is to discover certain file formats, such as PNG, JPG, or MP4, because the crime may have photographic, textual, or video evidence. This would be critical for investigators.
One of the advantages of this method is the ability to discover certain file types and deleted files. Because the forensic investigator has a limited amount of time, the recovery of data that is likely to be immediately relevant to the inquiry should be prioritized. Investigators might also collect data in stages, for as by transferring it to a succession of flash drives or compact disks. When it gets too hazardous for them to stay, they will be allowed to take everything they have copied. That way, they get at least some of the data rather than losing it entirely, as would happen if they just duplicated it all on a single disk or drive and then had to restore it. That way, they obtain at least some of the data rather than losing it entirely, as would happen if they merely copied it all on one disk or drive and had to leave in the middle of the process, or if the process failed for some reason. 
 However, this method necessitates some time spent determining which file types to search for and may result in essential information being overlooked if it is found in a different, unexpected, or rare file type. Investigators would have to examine the target device, do a quick risk assessment, and determine whether to tolerate the potential of missing some of the data. Furthermore, this software would be inoperable on a Mac or other operating system, limiting its utility to Windows.

Approach 3

The third and last way is to utilize DiskExplorer, which supports numerous operating systems (Windows, Mac OS, Linux, etc.) and file formats. This system has significant features, such as the ability to search for specific text strings, file entry information, and other means of viewing data, which might be quite helpful in uncovering clues, especially if there is already a basis of evidence material to work with. It also includes standard features such as the ability to image a disk and recover lost information. To find information relevant to the case, the investigating agent might utilize a range of viewing options to examine the partition table, boot record, root directory, or master file table. If they have the time, reviewing these various choices might be incredibly valuable since they can then aim their recovery efforts towards specific areas of the disk and make better educated conclusions about what data or portions of the disk are most likely to be relevant.
This strategy would potentially allow the most operating system flexibility and might be perfect if the device has numerous operating systems installed or the data is saved in different file formats. Furthermore, when evaluating the different records and directories on the device, the investigating team might picture that material for future reference if all of the data could not be acquired. While reviewing the files and deciding which areas to target for recovery may take time away from the investigator's ability to copy all of the information, it is likely that doing so will increase the likelihood of relevant information being collected, allowing the investigator to complete the task more quickly and escape the dangerous situation.

Conclusion 

Due to the time constraints imposed by the building fire, the nature of the crime under investigation, and the risk to the investigation team, the second or third techniques (or a mix of the two ways) are likely the best possibilities under the circumstances. Obviously, the most important aim is to remain safe and safely exit the building. While it is probably safest to simply grab the device and exit the building, the risk of data loss or irrecoverability makes it preferable from an investigation standpoint to take an approach that ensures at least some of the information is collected and preserved, even if this puts the investigator's life at risk. To secure themselves and the information entrusted to them, digital forensics investigators must make prompt and educated judgments while balancing the dangers.
